# Tempting Fate: Patterns & practices for shareable scripts and functions.

This is an update of a talk I gave at the 2019 PowerShell Summit, under rather hysterically disastrous conditions. Hopefully, this time, I'll be able to get through it without borrowing a laptop from the audience.

Maybe you've written a few scripts, and now you want to share with your teammates -- or maybe you want to share them with the world.

In this talk we'll go through some of your options, some patterns for making scripts more usable for others, and some best practices and code snippets:

- Handle errors when you can
- Output errors when you can't
- Options for better logging
- Questions to ask before sharing
- The minimum amount of help we can write
- Why parameter names matter, and how to choose them
- Outputting objects that are predictable and identifiable
- Binding parameters from the pipeline
- Determining what should go outside the process loop

At the end you'll have a checklist, some code snippets to help you meet it, and the knowledge of why you should do this work to make your scripts, functions, and modules more robust, and more intuitive for users.

# An Introduction

This talk is (still) about writing survivable code, which to me means three things:

1. Designing up front. Writing commands which make sense and work together
2. Handling errors and exceptions
3. Logging what you can't handle

I want to be clear about one thing: I can promise you, up front, that not all of my own code is bullet-proof.

The truth is that in my public code, I only rarely write things that really **need** to be bullet-proof, and as a result, if you look me up on github, you're not going to find all of these exception handling and logging practices followed. That tends to be a side-effect of writing modules for colors and prompts, where errors are unlikely, and not critical in any case. ;)

To be clear: at work, it's quite different -- we write deployment scripts which frequently have to handle errors, and always have to be much more vigilant about logging than what I do on github.

## Let's start by talking about design, which is my favorite part

In fact, I just want to remind you (although I'm not going to get into it), an important part of design is thinking about how your command will be used, so it's a good idea to write some help first, and then some tests, before you ever start implementing anything.